from Connery minutes.com. It's
kind of three minutes or
weekly discussion with web developer
and technologists. Rob Connery. This
is Lawrence Ryan announcing show number
three 53 recorded live Thursday,
January 10th, 2013. This episode is brought
to you by Telerx offering
the best in developer tools
and support online@telrikdotcomandbyfranklins.net training developers
to work smarter and now
offering gesture pack, powerful gesture,
recording and recognition system for
Microsoft for windows developers details
at Jeff  dot com.
In this episode, Rob talks
to Scott Hanselman about midlife
crises. Hi, this is Rob
great. And it's another episode
of Connor. Eight minutes today.
I am interviewing mr. Scott
Hanselman. I don't know why
I find that so stupid
every time. Hey. No. Okay.
It just has to happen.
How are you today, sir?
I'm I'm always uncomfortable when
you're on the show rack
on it. I'm hijacking your
show. I sent you an
email and I said, Scott,
it's time to hijack the
show again. He's more cowbell.
Exactly. The reason I wanted
to hijack your show is
you have a birthday coming
up. So do I, when
is your birthday? January 17th. Oh,
wow. That is very soon.
Yeah. Mine's couple days after
her as well. Okay. You
and me and Phil I'll
have birthdays within one week.
I believe it feels like
24 now. He doesn't count.
That's true. Yeah. Well, the
interesting thing is I was
thinking the other day about
my birthday and I was
just, I was joking on
Twitter and I said, Oh
my gosh, you know, I'm
almost 29, which is a
lie and a bunch of
years. Have you been 29?
Yeah, at least 44. Now
I'm going to be turning
45. Really? It was funny.
I just, yeah, I just
sort of went off about,
Oh my gosh, I'm going
to be 29. I haven't
found it a startup yet.
Where's my, where's my big
payout. How come I not
in Silicon Valley? I don't
know. Just all this stuff.
Just having fun. You're a
horrible person. Well, he got
me thinking it got me
thinking, you know, I have
some pretty interesting reactions as
to you, right? When we
see certain types of behavior.
Yeah. And what we call
like the whole get off
my lawn reaction. Yeah, yeah.
Yeah. We're not elderly programmers
of any means. Right. But
we are, there is a
generation that is different. Right.
I like talking to programmers
in their sixties because I
think that they have really
interesting perspectives on, on, on
what it was like programmed
before. And they have 20
years on me. Right. So
I enjoy talking to programmers
also that I have 20
years on, You know, that
I'm, I am 20 years
older than, and I think
it's funny when people in
their, in their, in their
twenties, 25 ish get angsty
about their, their success or
relative lack of success or
whatever. And I find that,
that people can get these
bubbles around themselves. You know,
like there's the, there's the
Silicon Valley bubble, but there's
this whole startup thing, this,
this obsession with the startup.
And I don't know. I
think sometimes the, the, the
young people forget that we're
not really building stuff. You
know what I mean? Like
we're building stuff, but it's
very ephemeral. It doesn't last
very long it's and, and
it's not, you know, unless
it's like saving babies, what
is it that you're building?
That's so amazing, right? If
you will, I've building a
B2B marketplace that, you know,
allows people to, you know,
whatever, like, remember that, remember
expired foods.com your buddies. Great
idea. Right? It's a, B
to B marketplace, mobile B2B
marketplace for expired foods. I
mean, it really is that,
is that get a passport
and go travel somewhere. Don't
you think? I do. I
do. But an interesting thing
happened as I was driving
home. After my little Twitter
rant, the tables turned in
my head as I put
myself, like, what if I
really was about to turn
29? I mean, I had
a lot of anxiety back
then as most 20 somethings
seem to have. And what
if I was listening to
this podcast and these two
old guys are sitting there
talking about how dumb all
the young guys are. Right.
I would be just as
agitated, but in a reverse
directions. That make sense. Yeah,
I suppose so. But that
presumes that, Oh, are you
older young that you're listening?
Oh, and let's say my
young self is listening to
this Young self. Well, your
young self presumes that, you
know everything and you've got
it all figured out. Right.
And young self is offended
by, you know, those old
guys they're, they're not thinking
clearly. And they don't, they
don't understand. They don't have
the perspective that we have
as, as, as younger people,
blah, blah, blah. Right. Yeah.
It's weird. It's the forces
of change. So for instance,
you're sitting, imagine yourself now
sitting in an audience in
Vegas, right. And you're at
a, you're at a talk
and these young guys up
on stage with a fohawk
and boom, the F word
gets splashed across the, across
the screen. And he's got
this sly look in his
face, like, you know, am
I not clever? You know,
and you roll your eyes.
Oh gosh, really? We're going
to have to sit through
this now go up on
stage. So you're the young
guy on stage. You're giving
the talk you're about to,
you've put so much love
and effort into it. And
then you look out there
and you see this old
dude sitting there rolling his
eyes at you. I'm so
curious about that. I don't
want to be the old
guy, like get off my
lawn. You kids, we joke
get off my lawn. But
do you ever think that
maybe we're sliding into some
sort of cliche ourselves? So
you know how, when you're
talking to your kids, you've
probably noticed this, that you'll
hear your father's voice or
your mother's voice. You'll hear,
not just that, you'll say
the same things, but you'll
say it and you'll go,
wow. Everything there was exactly,
as he would say it,
that was like, so almost
just a cliche. I have
become my father. Right. That,
that doesn't, that is not
a, an, a thing that
just happened to me. That
is a universal truth, right?
There is no question in
my mind that every single
person who has kids is
having that experience at least
a couple of times a
year, if not a couple
of times a week where
I'll say something and I've
even, I've even thought that
I've seen him, he ever
like walking down the street
and then you walk by
like a big department store
window and you go, Whoa.
And then you look and
it's you, Right? Yep. Okay.
That's like the human experience.
That is how it's supposed
to happen. So as, as
Jenner, and again, to be
clear to the folks that
are older than us, when
we say old guys, we're
just, you know, we're just
feeling our midlife crisis here.
No, no disrespect intended, but
we're, we, we only get
to pick on the kids
that are younger, but we,
you know, when you roll
your eyes and the audience,
is that a cliche? Well,
you could call it a
cliche, but you could also
just say that it is
absolutely as things are supposed
to be. That's true. Yeah.
It seems there needs to
be some type of tension
where wisdom gained needs to
be tested. And it's, it's
hard for me. It's hard
for me to deal with
that. Getting older. I like,
look at my birthday. I'm
45, right. I have been
through two bubbles now that
I know more languages, I
forgot more languages that many
people have actually learned. That
is such an old guy
thing to say. It is.
And so it's funny when
you're talking to people like
John Sheehan, you know, and
who likes to call us,
you know, Our, our lovely
friend, John Sheehan, who we
tease about age, to be
clear, to make sure that
we're not, we're not singling
John out. Yeah. Yeah. I
met, I met with John,
we had dinner and some,
you know, the other night
when were in San Francisco
and it's so funny, I,
I find myself giving him
advice and I can see
the look in his eyes,
which is like, dude, I
got it covered. You know,
Dude, we need to get
that dude. I've got it.
covered.com. Like we need a
tumbler of just pictures of
young people with looks on
their faces. Like I got
this, just go away. You
and your gray beard, you
know, your neck beard. Yeah.
And I'm like, I've been
through two bubbles and this
is what I think. And
he's like, okay, fine. I'm
sure I'm making moves, man.
I'm making money. It's so
funny. So what does it
mean To you? How are
you going to be 39,
39, 39. So you're facing
40. I mean, does that,
does that feel, Does it
feel different to you? It's
less about the number because
dork that I am like,
okay, well, you know, base
10, I'm 40, you know
what I mean? It's just
like, that's kind of how
I'm doing or I'm 39,
you know what I mean?
That's, I'm just, I'm justifying
it in like other ways,
but you know, I'm 47
base eight, you know, I'm
just like, you know, you
work it out in your
head, like all the different
things that, all the different
things that you're going to
be. Like, I like to
think of myself as being,
you know, a hundred thousand,
111, you know, in binary,
that would be much, much
more comforting. Right. But is
it, it's not that it's
40 and it's around number.
It's more that it's the
percent, the progress bar is
what bothers me. You see
what I'm saying? It's, it's
the 40% of the way
there. And that's optimistic. It's
more than I'm probably over
halfway there. Right. And that's,
that's really concerning. So it's,
it's 40 represents around number,
but 40 really represents, okay.
That was half of my
life. And the worst part
about the realization that this
has been half of your
life is the, you only
had control over the last
half of that half. Does
that make sense? Yeah. So
I really only had control
over the last 20 years
for the first 20, for
the first 10. You're pretty
much on autopilot, somewhere around
15, you get, get a
kind of consciousness, but arguably
that is just useless until
you're somewhere around 17 or
18. I don't know. This
is just my opinion, but
I don't think your brain
really shuts on and tell
you about 22. And it's
a challenge. So I'm a
little sad, like, wow, I'm
halfway there. And I only
had 20 good years. That's
kinda my math. It's fuzzy
math, but that's what I'm
doing. Yeah. Well, there's some
people who would say you
still don't have control. In
fact, I think I talked
to Mo the other day
and she mentioned your lack
of control. Okay. That's random.
Okay. Just have to throw
out a small dig. You
know what I mean? It's
just, that bothers me. And
I thinking about the progress
bar, it gets me thinking
about that idea of living
life by default. Did you
read that article about living
in your life by default?
Yeah, it's an article. I
think it was like the
new Yorker or something. And
it was basically saying here's
what happens when you live
your life by default and
it was, did they, did
they made up this, this
theoretical person. Okay. And you
know, I think he ends
up kind of, you know,
falling into school at somewhere
and then getting married and
having kids. And everything's fine,
but nothing was particularly amazing
or impressive. He basically just
takes all of the defaults
and you think he ends
up, you know, working at
a, at a cardboard, resale,
a cardboard recycling plant or
whatever, you know what I
mean? Something kind of dull
and kind of unimpressive. And
he ends up being an
office manager, whatever, and that's
fine if that's satisfying and
if you have a great
home life. Sure. But the
point was, he had a
wholly and completely on interesting
life, right. That doesn't mean
go all the other direction
and then become a, a
startup person and go in
and create something or, or
become a doctor or, or
people who work in cardboard.
Recycling plants are bad people.
It just means if you
take the defaults, then are
you really living? You know
what I mean? I think
that the midlife crisis that
everyone hears about is the
attempt for the 40 year
old person to reassert the,
I have control of my
life thing. Right. I just
think that people should use
that opportunity to start working
out and eating right. Instead
of buying little convertible, you
know, cars and that, you
know, the kind of more,
more prototypical midlife crisis. Yeah.
You're making me think of
a show. I just watched
the other day, where are
these, these guys go to
India and they're going to
do this motorcycle ride across
the Himalaya and they're following
this guru. And they're all,
you know, my age, mid
forties, fifties, whatever. And they're
just so completely self absorbed
about their enlightenment. And they
need to do this because
society has always told them
XYZ Bothers me because those
people don't even realize that
what print would have privileges
to have the money to
have been on that trip.
You know what I mean?
Like it's like, Oh, I'm
climbing the Himalayas. Okay. That's
great. Did you hire a
Sherpa? Yes. Well then you
got a pretty sweet gig.
I mean, you're in your,
you are the 1%, unless
you like rolled in there
on your, on your vintage
motorcycle and you did the
whole thing, like on a
shoe string. It's pretty much
to be said that you
are, are doing okay. Yeah.
I don't know. I think
for me personally, as I,
as I face down 50
I'm, I'm about halfway there.
I find that that anxiety
that creeps in where, you
know, they get off my
lawn thing where you're looking
at the young guys are,
you know, is, is just
the inverse of the psychosis
I had when I was
in my twenties. You know,
both times I'm trying to
control it and just say,
look, take life. As it
comes and stop being so
self centered, you don't need
to found the next great
startup, you know? And, and
that's one of the reasons
I'm out here in Hawaii,
but I find myself on
the other end of that
now facing down that anxiety
of, of feeling irrelevant, I
guess, you know, like you're
not listening to me. I
have wisdom and I'm not,
I'm not old, you know?
And then, you know, Yeah.
That's the definitely what you
don't want to do at
our age. Exactly. I don't
know. Do you ever find
yourself having to fight that
back? Like imagine John Sheehan
looking at you going dude,
I got it covered, but
that's always how John looks
at me. It's true. It's
true. But do you find
yourself having to fight that
down and just say, Oh,
just let it go. Who
cares? Well, the, the, the,
the, the, I'm trying to
think of an analogy here,
but I don't want to,
I'm not trying to pull
an analogy between the young
people that we talk to
and my kids, but sure.
One wants your kids to
listen to you and receive
the benefits of your wisdom,
but also make their own
mistakes. So you try to
protect them from making the
major stupid mistakes well, allowing
them to, to make appropriate
mistakes with reasonable, natural consequences.
Right? So, you know, John,
here's something you might want
using John as the example
again, and we're going to
get in trouble for this,
by the way, you know,
you should be thinking about
this and this and this
when you're founding the next
great startup and, you know,
be aware that this might
seem like an awesome idea,
but it turns out that
this is a red herring,
you know, good luck on
your, on your journey, but
I hope you've considered XYZ.
You know, when you make
the mistake that will inevitably
happen, have these systems in
place to back you up,
that's a different kind of
feedback than you really don't
want to do that. That's
just stupid. Find something else
to do. You know what
I mean? Absolutely. You know,
I think, you know, some,
a little mantra came to
me, this is not gonna
make much sense, but I
think an interesting way of
looking at this is what
would war do and honestly,
ward Cunningham. I, because I
keep thinking about the interview
that you did for this
developer's life podcast and the
excitement and energy and love,
and his voice, same with
Billy Hill, but see The two
guys that were in their
sixties and seventies. Right. And
I want to be like
that just alive, you know,
and like, Oh, what a
neat idea, John? You know
what, by the way, John
Sheehan is not going to
be mad at you. If
anything, he's going to be
tickled pink. We're talking about
him this much. Well, yeah.
Yeah. But I think the
thing that you're describing to
me is that what is
it that we like about
ward, right? Is that he's
just so freaking stoked. Right?
Exactly. Like when I went
over to his place a
couple of times, and I
go down into the basement
and it's like, you know,
what are you working on?
And he just lights up.
And then, you know, you're
looking at like Arduinos that
he's hooked up to plants
to make sure that the
water is like, the dirt
is moist. And it texts
him whenever the plant needs
water. And he's got all
these temperature sensors throughout the
house. So like he knows
the historical temperature over the
last several years of different
corners of his house is
exploring why the Northwest corner
is warmer than the Southwest
corner, you know, but he's
totally, totally amped about it.
So, you know, I don't
care whether John has a
startup or not, or whether
it succeeds or not. What
I care about is whether
he's just totally stoked about
it. Yup. You see what
I'm saying? So I think
that the lesson is then,
do you know, did I
build something great is less
interesting than did I have
a total blast doing it
Exactly. Right. Have a good
time and enjoy what you
do, because that's all you
got and, you know, be
okay if someone doesn't listen
to you, I guess is
kind of the thing that
I keep thinking about. And,
and it keeps me sane,
to be honest. Yeah. How
about you? Yeah. I think
that, that's it also, now
that I have already built
a lot of stuff, I
like to make sure that
other people are having fun.
So my, my building is
making sure other people are
having fun building things. Yeah.
So I want to make
sure, like I've got cousins
and nieces and nephews and
sons, and I want to
make sure that they're all
having, having fun. So I
try to figure out what
I can do to engender
that amount of, of stoke
goodness. If that's a word
being stoked in, in the
kids, like I really find
the disaffected teenager thing disappointing.
Yeah. I I'm a fan
of, I don't know where
that internal fire comes from,
but I'm a fan of
when I meet a team
and by team, I mean,
anywhere from, you know, 15
to 20 who's jazzed about
something, usually creation is what
makes me the most excited.
So if you're stoked about
building and I think that
that's cool and if you're
15 or 16 or 17,
and you're like, yeah, I
don't know. I was like,
wow, how can we get
this person jazzed? That's what
I think, you know what
I mean? How can we
turn that on? It might
not be building stuff. It
might be something entirely different
I haven't thought of, but
they will feel much better
when they have a reason
to wake up in the
morning. Yeah. I think, you
know, be the jazz, speaking
of, at your house when
you're describing all these things,
I remember going to your
house. I think it was
when we did the video
for tech pub and your
garage full of all these
little Hansel projects, what was
it? Your, you had a
video arcade that you made
me play with you for
a while. And then you
showed me your Legos that
you had going. And that's
such a weird thing to
say, but My 45 year
old friend came over to
my house and we played
Legos. You know, it was
just like, Oh, hell that's,
that's what it's like going
to your house. But it's
fun. It's a little playground.
And I, and to your
point, I think the way
you, you get your kids,
or let's say when they
turn teenagers or other teenagers,
whatever excited is to is
to be excited in the
same way that ward excited
us, you know, with his
enthusiasm and vitality is, you
know, more people need to
be like that. For sure.
It would be sad to
not be jazzed about something.
And it doesn't end the
being jazzed about something. It
doesn't necessarily have to be
your, your job, but it's
always nice if it is.
Yeah. Do you know how
many people out there now
are going to just call
this our midlife crisis episode?
We want to, we could
let's call it that Conrad
minutes to the Midland Episode.
Yeah. And by the way,
did I tell you I'm
planning a motorcycle trip across
the way you want to
go with the horse? You
are. I got my guru.
There's no way, dude. I
have, I have less than
no interest in doing that
Negative interest. You were actively
Yes. I'm going to
stop it from happening. No,
I know everyone's got their
own thing. You know, you
got it. If you want
to do your motorcycle trip,
that's fine. What I'm going
to ask you now, we're
going to get in trouble
from motorcycle trip people. The
point is that there's a
difference between like paying someone
$10,000 and having the entire
trip handled for you. You
know what I mean? It's
like when you go on
those rafting trips and like,
all the food is like
set up for you at
the end of the trip.
Like you get, you know,
you like you do your
rafting and then you get
off the boat. And then
there's like a full meal
with like a chef. And
like they've set up the
tables and stuff. Cause you
know, that's somehow less impressive
and, and less of the
journey. Yeah. Yeah. So as
you're, as you're describing this,
I'm wondering if there's anything
that would make you change
your mind about going no,
no. Yeah. Come on Scott.
Let's go about, so I'm
trying to envision a situation
where a startup calls you
and you know, we've got
this great idea and let's
say it's, you know, related
to something that means a
lot to you and you
can stay. You don't think
that I'm negative. I'm anti-static
No, not at all, but
I'm one, but for me,
yeah. I wasn't thinking this
conversation at anything to do
with startups in general, started
to startup was the yeah.
Risk. That's the point. Yeah.
So the point would be
that they have an opportunity.
You can work from Portland
and not Portland. You can
work from your house. They're
gonna, they want to come
in and do some stuff.
And would you ever take
a job like that? Assuming,
you know, I know you're
happy at Microsoft and everything.
Yeah. Yeah. This has nothing
to do with Microsoft or
not. It definitely risk. I'm
not in a, in a
particularly risky mood right now
when you have, when you're,
you know, you're getting your
money ready for retirement, you
know, you don't want necessarily
put that on the, put
that on the line. Certainly.
I'm just wondering, would there
ever be something so meaningful
to you that you're so
passionate about that would make
you risk and make you
take that chance? Is there
something interesting that I would
take that I would go
and do? Sure. Is there
something that I would risk
stuff on? No, I'm not
going to risk my, my
retirement now. That doesn't mean
that I work at Microsoft
for retirement purposes. I had,
I had, I had money
before Microsoft, you know, I
did a lot of stuff.
There's a billion, a billion
dollars. No, I'm just saying
that, that, that the Microsoft
paycheck is lovely that Microsoft
healthcare is lovely, but I
don't, it's not the thing
that like pays the bills
as far as, you know,
one has investments and stuff.
The point I'm making about
risk is, is that, would
I, would I take a
risk at, at 40? No,
I'm not going to take
any risks. That means that
my family might be homeless.
I've got kids that are
going to go to college.
Would I take do a
different thing, a lateral type
thing? Of course, of course.
I'm just saying that I'm
am I going to sell
my house and move to
the Bay area? And then,
you know, take, take my
life savings and my, and
my kids' college education and
pour it into an idea.
No, there's no need to
do that. Cause I've been
around a long enough. I'm
sure I would find some
investor to be able to
pull. Yeah, absolutely. And here's
why I bring this up.
I find that the older
I get, the less likely
I am to entertain an
idea like, Oh, we've got
a great idea for a
startup. Come join us Robin.
Not really. I don't, I
don't think so. It's not
appealing to me and I,
and I, and I wonder
sometimes if that's going to
strengthen as I get older,
but then my good buddy
Todd, who is 52, just
left his job as a
consultant and decided to go
back to school and become
a physical therapist. And I
asked him why he did
this. And I saw you
having a midlife crisis, you
know, what's going on? He
said, no, no, he probably
just switches careers. It was
just interesting to me. And
I said, his is a
chemical engineer. Right. And very
well paid consultant. And I
said, well, I don't understand.
Are you, you know, were
you being unfulfilled? He's like,
no, I just wanted to
change. And it occurred to
me that there could be
a time when something swings
right out of the blue
and everything changes. And just
for some reason, I just
never entertained that idea so
much. And I guess I
was, that's the kind of
question I was asking As
being different. I think that
the, okay, I understand what
you're saying. So yeah. Would
I ever quit and like
become a nurse or something?
Sure, absolutely. I don't think
that that's a risky, that's
just the moving to a
different career. Yeah. Yeah. It's
just a, I don't know.
I find that very interesting
that y'all you get to
a point where you, you
stop entertaining ideas of jumping
ship and you think, okay,
I'm happy where I am.
Right. Things are cruising along
and then boom, everything changes.
And I hope that I'm
able to be flexible enough
to say, okay, Let's go.
Yeah, absolutely. Well, my wife
is switching careers, right? I
mean, she went from a
career in finance and nonprofit
and she's going to become
a nurse. I've talked about
becoming either a nurse or
a doctor. I don't know
if I'm totally too old
to be a doctor, but
that's extremely interesting to me.
I mean, I spend a
lot of time arguing with
doctors anyway, you know, me
and dr. Google, dr. Sciencey
liked that very much so.
So yeah. I think that'd
be great. If anyone wants
to pay for me to
become a doctor, I'd be
more than happy to, to
make that happen. I think,
I think that would be
no seriously. I certainly I'm
really interested in, so yeah,
something I could do something
like that. And I don't
know. I don't know if
it'd be endocrinology or what
I would do, but yeah.
Good question. I could see
you. I could seriously, I
could see you working on
something like diabetes, you know,
later in life. I like
the idea of actually seeing
patients. You know what I
mean? I don't want to
be a researcher, like literally
seeing patients and hanging out
with them. Cause I think
I would be good at
that. I, I, but at
the same time, this is
the thing. If I went
on to become a doctor,
I would probably end up
just teaching. You know what
I mean? But yeah, I
was gonna say, I could
see, like, you're making a
point with dr. Hanselman. You
go in the room and
you sit down and you
go look at this new
x-ray reader. I have. This
is so cool. And have
you ever seen this and
45 minutes go by and
see what, what are you
here for now? Yeah, exactly.
That's that's a problem showing
it. Yeah. Like look at
this app sort of thing
that people would like, appreciate
that. Well, Scott, thank you
for letting me take over
your show again. We kind
of wandered this conversation a
little bit, but I think
there is something listable in
there. Maybe a minute or
two. You're not going to
invite me back or you're
never coming back on the
show. All right. Fine. All
right. Bye. Bye. Bye. This
has been another episode of
gunnery minutes. You're on the
Hansel minutes show. We'll see
you again next week, blah,
blah, blah. No shatter. Gimme
Scottish. Scottish. I can't do
Scottish on demand. See, you
can try it. It's my
show. Oh God, this is
I can't. I can do
Scotty now. I can't do
it. I get my fine.
I can't find my tongue.
Cause you know, when you
want to do an impression,
you have to like find
a word or a phrase
to start it off. You
know what I mean? All
right. Tonight. Show. How about
tonight? Johnny Carson? You can do,
I can let you do
that. Let me see. Let
me see. Johnny, Johnny, Johnny Carson.
I, this has been another,
another episode of the, the
Connery minutes. I, I did
not. I did not know
that. That is, that is
pretty fantastic. Thank you. A
Rob Connery. It was Connor
Connery minutes. It was funny.
It was Jewish. What about
Sean Connery? The only, the
only only oppression I can
do is again, I've tried
that Orin Orin again. They
redeem that's what makes me
want to cry? This podcast
is making me more stupid.
This podcast. It's time to
stop. Make it stop. All
right, goodbye.